# Crop-Prediction-ML

## Performance Evaluation for Crop Yield Prediction Using Machine Learning Algorithms 

This paper mainly discusses the fusion of technology with the agricultural sector of India, which has contributed and will contribute extensively to GDP, and is responsible for the majority of employment in the country. We have used Machine Learning (ML) techniques like Curvilinear Regression (CLR) for the quantitative analysis, and K-Nearest Neighbours (KNN) classification for the qualitative analysis of crop yield. Previously, the work in this field was based just on the quantitative analysis of the data to plot the relationship of Simple Linear and Multiple Linear Regression. Artificial Neural Network (ANN) has also been repetitively used to find the results which are more qualitatively oriented. The factors used by various researchers are varying i.e., different from each other. Thus, these proposed models have volatile predictions and varying accuracy rates. The extrapolation is mainly based on the various factors like Soil conditions, Area under Control (AUC), Annual Rainfall (AR), and it also affects the crop prices i.e., the Minimum Support Price (MSP). It might result in the fluctuation of the market. Classification done using KNN branches the available data into respective categories using all the given parameters. We have used the parameters like: Land Area being used for agriculture and the States. We have proposed and implemented a model to carry out accurate and efficient crop yield prediction.

> for feedback, kindly contact: nayan.das@s.amity.edu, nayanrdas02@gmail.com
